--- PAGE 1 ---
Middle East Technical University Department of Computer Engineering
CENG 495
Cloud Computing
2025-2026 Spring
Take Home Exam 1
(Ver. 1.0)
April 5 2026, Sunday 23:59
1 Introduction
For the assignment, your task is to develop an e-commerce web application and deploy it to
the cloud Platform-as-a-Service (PaaS) Vercel1. You will use the NoSQL2 database MongoDB3
on the Database-as-a-Service (DBaaS) cloud platform MongoDB Atlas4.
2 Atlas (MongoDB Platform)
ÔÇó Create a free account on MongoDB Atlas MongoDB Atlas5.
ÔÇó Create a new project and deploy a new database. You can find the documentation here6.
ÔÇó Configure your database to be accessible from any IP address (from the Network Access
Section), and setup password authorization for DB access (from the Database Access
section).
ÔÇó Atlas allows for fine-grained database access controls under the Security Section. You can
leverage this for your admin user and regular users.
3 Vercel (App PaaS)
ÔÇó Login to Vercel using a new or an existing account.
ÔÇó Review the documentation7 and choose the technology stack to implement the assignment.
There are no restrictions on which language or stack you can use to implement, but it is
recommended to use the language or the stack you are familiar with.
ÔÇó In the documentation, you may notice that Vercel expects a GitHub repo to pull and
deploy your application from. You should use a private repository for that. If you wish,
you can make your repository public after the grades are announced.
1https://vercel.com
2https://yurichev.org/NoSQL/
3https://www.mongodb.com/
4https://www.mongodb.com/atlas
5https://www.mongodb.com/atlas/database
6https://www.mongodb.com/docs/
7https://vercel.com/docs
1

--- PAGE 2 ---
4 E-Commerce Application
You are probably familiar with many examples of e-commerce sites for purchasing products
like groceries or clothing. However, if you want inspiration for your design, sites using
Shopify8 platform are common. And if you want inspiration for the architecture for your
project, examining this project9 may be a good starting point.
However, the features expected from your e-commerce application is far more limited in scope
compared to a real e-commerce site, and they can be found in the following sections.
4.1 Home Page
This is the start page of your application. It is accessed through index.html. The items
available for sale should be listed on the homepage with filtering options for the category of
the items. For the purposes of this homework, at minimum, the following categories of
items should be for sale;
ÔÇó Vinyls
ÔÇó Antique Furniture
ÔÇó GPS Sport Watches
ÔÇó Running Shoes
ÔÇó Camping Tents
If the current user is not authorized, they are only allowed to browse the items. You should
offer a way for user authentication on your home page.
4.2 Admin Capabilities
When someone logs in as the admin, they should be able to do the following:
Add Item: Create and insert a new item into the database. See Section 4.4 for the required
attributes of items.
Remove Item: Remove an item from the application. By removing the item, you should
also remove the ratings and the reviews relevant to that item. Any user affected by the
removal should have their relevant fields updated as well.
Add User: Create a new user. Refer to Section 4.5 for user attributes.
Remove User: Remove the user and update relevant items that are effected by this change.
4.3 Regular User Capabilities
When a regular user logs in, they should be able to do the following on each itemÔÇÖs page:
Rate Item: Rate an item on a scale of 1 to 5. The average rating of the item is updated as a
result. A user can rate an item multiple times, the latter overwriting the prior rating.
Review Item: Review an item. Reviews can also be updated. When a review is updated,
ÔÇ£Edit:ÔÇØ string and the new review should be appended to the end of the original review.
8https://www.shopify.com/
9https://github.com/venkataravuri/e-commerce-microservices-sample
2

--- PAGE 3 ---
4.4 Item Attributes
The following is the list of attributes for items. When implementing the item details view
(either a new page or a frame), ensure that every relevant detail of the item is presented to
the user. Note that not every field is required for every item.
Name: The name of the item.
Description: The description of the item.
Price: The price of the item, choice of currency is left to you.
Seller: The seller of the item.
Image: The image showing the item. You do not need to implement image upload, a
hyperlink to an image file on the Internet is fine.
Battery Life: Only relevant for GPS sport watches.
Age: Only relevant for antique furniture and vinyls.
Size: Only relevant for the running shoes.
Material: Only relevant for antique furniture and running shoes.
Rating: Average rating this item has received.
Reviews: List of the reviews on the item.
Condition: Whether the item is new or used.
You are free to add additional attributes as you see fit. For instance, to keep track of the
average rating, you can also have a number of reviewers.
4.5 User Attributes
Create a dedicated page presenting the following details of the currently authenticated
regular user. If the current user is not logged-in, they should not be able to see this page or
the way of accessing this page.
Username: The username of the user
Average Rating: The average of every rating given by this user
Reviews: Every review written by this user
5 Rules and Submission
ÔÇó This is an exam. Plagiarism will not be tolerated.
ÔÇó Upload a zip file contains all of your source code to ODTUClass assignment page before
the deadline.
ÔÇú The penalty for late submission is (­ØÉı­ØÉ«­ØÉĞ­ØÉø­ØÉŞ­ØÉ½ ­ØÉ¿­ØÉş ­ØÉï­ØÉÜ­ØÉ¡­ØÉŞ ­ØÉâ­ØÉÜ­ØÉ▓­ØÉ¼)­ØşÉ ├ù­Øşô.
ÔÇú You will get 0 automatically after 3 late days.
ÔÇó Your submission must include a README file that explains your design decisions and the
publicly accessible URL of your Vercel deployment. It should include explanations on:
ÔÇú How to login as a regular user and the admin user and how to use the application
3

--- PAGE 4 ---
ÔÇú Rationale behind the choices regarding:
ÔÇô The selected programming language and frameworks
ÔÇô The general architecture of the application
ÔÇú And other points as you would like to mention
ÔÇó Populate your application by adding at least 8 items and 3 users. Have your users rate and
review every item at least once. Make sure at least one item from every category is
available in the application.
ÔÇó Since we are using a NoSQL database which allows for dynamic schemas, you are expected
to take advantage of this flexibility, for example, by designing your database with the
fewest collections possible.
ÔÇó We may request live demo sessions for randomly selected submissions and submissions we
deem necessary. Details regarding how and when the session will take place will be
announced later on ODTUClass page.
4

